# TRAINxR

For anonimization purposes, all names and contents of the application  are anonymized, and the training videos have been removed or changed with examples.

The TRAINxR Trainer Application is fully functional prototype of a web-based training tool that allows trainers to create and manage training sessions. Trainees can join these sessions, watch a training video, and submit feedback. The application is built using Flask and integrates with Google Sheets for data storage.

## Features

- Create new training sessions
- Add reaction times for each session
- Add feedback for each session
- View and analyze session data
- Generate visualizations for session data

## Lessons learned

OOP basics:
- Objects, classes, inheritance, methods, attributes, constructors, polymorphism, encapsulation, and abstraction.

Flask:
- Classes, inheritance, methods, order of methods, virtual functions, file organization, and secure credentials handling.

Python:
- Docstrings, exception handling, Flake8, and import order.

JavaScript:
- Basic syntax and concepts.

Data visualization and ETL:
- Matplotlib and Seaborn.

MySQL and MariaDB:
- Basic SQL queries, connecting to a database, and creating and managing tables.

Google Sheets:
- Using Google Sheets to store and manage data.

Other:
- Constants, functions in different files, and Git: conventional commits, branching.

## Developer notes

### Data visualization

The chart that is shown on /analysis depends on the data generated by [Hume](https://www.hume.ai). To get that data you need to provide hume with three separate audio files:

- Officer: file containing only the officer's speech
- Driver: file containing only the driver's speech
- Scene: file containing both the officer and the drivers scene

None of the files should include the *intro* and *outro* voiceover, but it is probably best to add a silence of the same lenght at the beginning and the end of each file for accuracy in the data visualization.

At the present time hume outputs three different files: burst, laguage and prosody. This application uses the language output.

Those datasets are stored in /datasets:

- `OF_language.csv`: officer data

This data is used to plot the blue line.

- `DF_language.csv`: driver data

This data is used to plot the red line.

- `O+D_F_language.csv`: scene data

This data is used to generate `mean_dimensions.csv`, a set of values that represent the means of the values of the driver and the officer for every dimension. To calculate the means use `means_calculator.py`.

The resulting file must be named `mean_dimensions.csv` and placed into /datasets. It will be used to plot an invisible line where the trainees responses (the black dots) are set.

## Instalation

- Clone the repo: `git clone https://github.com/leroidubuffet/TRAINxR_flask`
- Change into the directory: `cd TRAINxR_flask`
- Create a google sheets file to hold the application data
- Create a [Google Cloud](cloud.google.com) Project
- Create your own Google Cloud Service Account Authentication keys and save them into `credentials.json´ 
- Run the Flask app: `python app.py` or `flask --app app.py --debug run`

### Prerequisites

You will need to have the following tools installed on your machine:

- Python 3.6+
- Flask
- Flask-SocketIO
- gspread
- pandas
- numpy
- seaborn
- matplotlib

You can install the necessary python packages with pip:

`pip install flask flask-socketio gspread pandas numpy seaborn matplotlib`

### Usage

- Visit http://localhost:5000 in your web browser to view the app.
- Use the trainer dashboard to create new sessions and view session data.
- As a trainee, you can join a session, watch the training video, and submit feedback.